Kubo and the Two Strings
Friday, January 27	7:15	
Saturday, January 28	2:00	
Sunday, January 29	4:30	
2016 > USA > Directed by Travis Knight
With Charlize Theron, Art Parkinson, Ralph Fiennes, George Takei
In the latest movie from stop-motion animation studio Laika, a young boy named Kubo must locate a magical suit of armor worn by his late father in order to defeat a vengeful spirit from the past. Inspired by Japanese folklore, the film features gorgeously handcrafted origami creations to tell its tale.  Recommended for ages 8+ More at kubothemovie.com DCP 'Scope
1 hr 41 min

Arrival
Friday, January 27	9:30	
Saturday, January 28	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Denis Villeneuve
With Amy Adams, Jeremy Renner, Forest Whitaker
When mysterious spacecraft touch down across the globe, the American government puts together an elite team to investigate. To communicate with them, linguistics expert Louise Banks will take a chance that could threaten her life, and quite possibly humanity. More at arrivalmovie.com DCP 'Scope
1 hr 56 min

American Honey
Saturday, January 28	9:30	
Sunday, January 29	7:00	
Monday, January 30	7:00	
2016 > UK/USA > Directed by Andrea Arnold
With Shia LaBeouf, Riley Keough, Sasha Lane
A Polaroid view of the America Dream via a road trip of young, partying misfits selling magazine subscriptions across the Midwest. "[Director Andrea Arnold] wants to show us youth in revolt, and pleasure-seeking as a design for life. But she also takes us right into the unwashed armpit of flyover country and, in that most hopeless place, finds love." (The Telegraph)  More at americanhoney-movie.com DCP
2 hrs 43 min

Ithaca Premiere
All Governments Lie: Truth, Deception, and the Spirit of I.F. Stone
Tuesday, January 31	7:00	
2016  > Canada > Directed by Fred Peabody
With I.F. Stone, Carl Bernstein, Noam Chomsky
Independent media stars Amy Goodman, Michael Moore, Matt Taibbi, Jeremy Scahill, and Glenn Greenwald make their case against the Mainstream Media with the help of Washington Post's Carl Bernstein, academic Noam Chomsky & Ralph Nader. Doc presents them as heirs to I.F. "Izzy" Stone, whose work is presented in a thumbnail sketch. More at allgovernmentslie.com DCP
1 hr 31 min

Imitation of Life
Wednesday, February 1	7:00	
1959 > USA > Directed by Douglas Sirk
With Juanita Moore, Lana Turner, Sandra Dee, Susan Kohner
In his final film, Sirk remakes Imitation of Life, a popular melodrama that explores mother-child relations, "passing," and class conflict.  "Nothing is natural.  Ever.  Not in the whole film."  (Rainer Werner Fassbinder)  DCP
2 hrs 5 min

Moonlight
Wednesday, February 1	9:30	
Thursday, February 2	7:00	
Friday, February 3	7:00	
2016 > USA  > Directed by Barry Jenkins 
With Mahershala Ali, Janelle Monae, Kevin Sanderson, Jharrell Jerome, Trevante Rhodes, Andre Holland
Tough yet tender, gritty yet sensual, heart-rending and joyful, this remarkable film in which a gentle Black boy bullied as a "faggot" grows to manhood in Liberty City, Miami is "a cultural watershed - a work that dismantles all the ways our media view young black men and puts in their place a series of intimate truths. You walk out feeling dazed, more whole, a little cleaner." (Boston Globe) More at moonlight-movie.com DCP 'Scope
1 hr 51 min

The Handmaiden
Thursday, February 2	9:20	
Saturday, February 4	9:35	
Sunday, February 5	7:00	
2016 > South Korea > Directed by Chan-wook Park
With Min-hee Kim, Jung-woo Ha, Jin-woong Jo
1930s Korea, in the period of Japanese occupation, a new girl is hired as a handmaiden to a Japanese heiress who lives a secluded life on a large countryside estate with her domineering Uncle. But the maid has a secret. She is a pickpocket recruited by a swindler posing as a Japanese Count to help him seduce the Lady to elope with him, rob her of her fortune, and lock her up in a madhouse. The plan seems to proceed accordingly until the two women discover some unexpected emotions. Subtitled. More at handmaidenmovie.com DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 24 min

2001: A Space Odyssey
Friday, February 3	9:25	
Saturday, February 4	6:45	
1968 > USA > Directed by Stanley Kubrick
With Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood
The film that defined science fiction was released over 40 years ago but it still packs a wallop. "With music and mind-blowing visuals, Stanley Kubrick created a wildly popular avant-garde film that asked all of the biggest questions--without venturing any easy answers." (salon.com) If you haven't seen it on the big screen, you haven't seen it.  DCP
2 hrs 19 min

The Eagle Huntress
Saturday, February 4	2:00	
Sunday, February 5	4:30	
2016 > UK/Mongolia/USA > Directed by Otto Bell
With Aisholpan Nurgaiv
The Eagle Huntress follows a 13-year-old girl named Aisholpan as she trains to become the first female in twelve generations of her Kazakh family to become an eagle hunter, rising to the pinnacle of a tradition that has been handed down from father to son for centuries. Subtitles will be read out loud at the February 4 show. Recommended for ages 8+ One of fifteen films shortlisted for Best Documentary Feature Oscar. Subtitled. More at theeaglehuntress.com/site/ DCP
1 hr 27 min

Tower
Monday, February 6	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Keith Maitland
With Violett Beane, Louie Arnette, Blair Jackson
In 1966 a sniper climbed into the University of Texas Tower and shot 49 people, killing 16 in America's first school mass-shooting. The day is recreated through rotoscoped animation as in Richard Linklater's Waking Life.  "Through the recollections of witnesses and victims, [Tower] simultaneously builds a present-tense narrative while portraying the terrifying resilience of memory and trauma." (Village Voice) One of fifteen films shortlisted for Best Documentary Feature Oscar. More at kinolorber.com/tower DCP
1 hr 36 min

Ithaca Premiere
Command and Control
Tuesday, February 7	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Robert Kenner
With 
The documentary reveals the long-hidden story of a deadly accident at a Titan II missile complex in Damascus, Arkansas in 1980. Woven through the Damascus story is a riveting history of America's nuclear weapons program, from World War II through the Cold War, much of it based on recently declassified documents. One of fifteen films shortlisted for Best Documentary Feature Oscar. Cosponsored with the Cornell Committee to Prevent Nuclear War. More at commandandcontrolfilm.com DCP
1 hr 32 min

Ithaca Premiere
Get Out
Tuesday, February 7	9:15	
2017 > USA > Directed by  Jordan Peele 
With  Allison Williams, Daniel Kaluuya, Catherine Keener 
Interracial couple Chris and Rose spend a weekend with Rose's parents at their cursed family estate in this soon-to-be-released film that's equal parts gripping thriller and provocative commentary. More at getoutfilm.com/ DCP 'Scope
 hrs  min

Ithaca Premiere
I Am Not Your Negro
Wednesday, February 8	7:00	
2017 > USA/France/Belgium > Directed by Raoul Peck
With Samuel L. Jackson (narrator)
Focusing on a never-finished testimony by James Baldwin centered on the assassinations of Medgar Evers, Malcolm X, and Martin Luther King, Jr., Raoul Peck's "spiritual documentary...[is] a kaleidoscopic and transporting 90 minutes living inside James Baldwin's mind." (Variety) "...a cinematic seance, and one of the best movies about the civil rights era ever made." (The Guardian) More at magpictures.com DCP
1 hr 35 min

Battle of Algiers
Thursday, February 9	7:00	
Sunday, February 12	7:00	
1966 > Italy > Directed by Gillo Pontecorvo
With Jean Martin, Yacef Saadi, Brahim Haggiag
A stirring pseudo-documentary about the Algerian revolution against the imperialist French. The film treatment was written by an Algerian National Liberation Front (FLN) leader while in a French prison, who upon his release produced the film. With a compelling score by Ennio Morricone and remarkable footage shot in the labyrinthine lanes of the Casbah and on the streets of Algiers, the film was nominated for numerous Academy Awards and won the Grand Prize at the Venice Film Festival.  Shown in a new digital restoration. Subtitled. More at rialtopictures.com DCP
2 hrs 3 min

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
Thursday, February 9	9:35	
Saturday, February 11	7:00	
2016 > UK/USA > Directed by David Yates
With Eddie Redmayne, Katherine Waterson, Colin Farrell
The film takes us to a new era in J. K. Rowling's wizarding world, decades before Harry Potter. The year is 1926 and Newt Scamander has just completed a global excursion to find and document an extraordinary array of magical creatures. But his brief stopover in New York goes wildly awry after his mysterious briefcase is misplaced. More at fantasticbeasts.com DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 13 min

Ithaca Premiere
Oscar Shorts: Live Action
Friday, February 10	7:00	
Sunday, February 12	1:45	
2016 >  > Directed by various
With 
As we go to press, the Oscar nominations for best live action short have not been decided, but we have no doubt this will be a terrific program. Nominations will be announced on January 24 so we'll get the info up on our website soon after. See all the nominees before the winner is declared at the Academy Awards Ceremony on February 26! Subtitled. More at shortsinternational.com BluRay
 hrs  min

Ithaca Premiere
Oscar Shorts: Animation
Friday, February 10	9:35	
Saturday, February 11	9:45	
Sunday, February 12	4:30	
2016 >  > Directed by various
With 
As we go to press, the Oscar nominations for best animated short have not been decided, but we have no doubt this will be a terrific program. Nominations will be announced on January 24, so we'll get the info up on our website soon after. See all the nominees before the winner is declared at the Academy Awards Ceremony on February 26! More at shortsinternational.com BluRay
 hrs  min

20,000 Leagues Under the Sea
Saturday, February 11	2:00	
1954 > USA > Directed by Richard Fleischer
With Kirk Douglas, James Mason, Peter Lorre
Adapted from Jules Verne's novel, this late Nineteenth Century-set tale is a thrilling journey to the deepest depths of the ocean! Sailors have returned to port with stories of a vicious narwhal which sinks their ships. A naturalist (Paul Lukas), his assistant (Peter Lorre), and a professional whaler (Kirk Douglas), join an US expedition which attempts to unravel the mystery, running into the cantankerous Captain Nemo (James Mason) along the way. Recommended for ages 8+ DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 7 min

Ithaca Premiere
Streit's Matzo and the American Dream
Monday, February 13	7:15	
2016 > USA > Directed by Michael Levine
With Elissa Sampson
Since 1925 the Streit's matzo factory has sat in a low-slung tenement building on Manhattan's Lower East Side. While other matzo companies have modernized, Streit's remained a piece of living history, churning out 40 percent of the nation's unleavened bread on pre-War machinery as old as the factory itself. Sponsored by the Jewish Studies Program. More at matzofilm.com DCP
1 hr 23 min

Amelie 
Tuesday, February 14	7:00	
2002 > France > Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet
With Audrey Tautou, Mathieu Kassovitz
Jeunet's talent for whimsy, on display in his earlier work with Marc Caro (The City of Lost Children, Delicatessen), comes into its own in this story of a fetching young lady who changes, in ways small and large, the lives of her Montmartre friends and neighbors.  Subtitled. BluRay
2 hrs 1 min

Collegetown
Wednesday, February 15	2:00	
Wednesday, February 15	5:00	
2015 > USA > Directed by Hugo Genes
With Brian Lederman, M.J. Geier, Hugo Genes
Collegetown illuminates the social and financial situations that determine choices made by debt-ridden U.S. college students.  More at collegetownfilm.com Digital Projection
1 hr 16 min

The Wanderers
Wednesday, February 15	7:00	
1979 > USA > Directed by Philip Kaufman
With Ken Wahl, Karen Allen, John Friedrich
Based on the acclaimed first novel by Richard Price '71, The Wanderers follows the exploits of the titular Italian-American gang in the Bronx at the end of the Kennedy administration, just before the country underwent profound change. Featuring a jukebox full of golden oldies and a young cast of up and comers! More at kinolorber.com/film/thewanderers DCP
1 hr 57 min

I Am Not Madame Bovary
Thursday, February 16	7:00	
Saturday, February 18	7:00	
2016 > China > Directed by Xiaogang Feng
With Bingbing Fan, Wei Fan, Chengpeng Dong
One woman pitches herself against the ranks of Chinese bureaucracy in a ten- year campaign to restore her honor. Feng combines populist humor with a painterly mise-en-scene. "It's like an odd storybook you'd find in the attic and have trouble putting down - the more quixotic Lian's journey becomes, the more you want her to see it through to the bitter end." (Village Voice)  Subtitled. More at wellgousa.com/theatrical/i-am-not-madame-bovary DCP
2 hrs 8 min

Doctor Strange
Thursday, February 16	9:40	
Saturday, February 18	9:40	
Sunday, February 19	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Scott Derrickson
With Benedict Cumberbatch, Tilda Swinton, Chiwetel Eijiofor, Mads Mikkelson
A former neurosurgeon embarks on a journey of healing only to be drawn into the mind-bending world of the mystic arts. The latest crowdpleaser from the Marvel Industrial Complex! More at marvel.com/doctorstrange DCP 'Scope
1 hr 55 min

The Night Of
Friday, February 17	5:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Steven Zaillian
With John Turturro, Riz Ahmed
From creators Steven Zaillian and Cornell Alum and writer Richard Price '71, The Night Of is a Golden Globe nominated limited HBO TV series that delves into the intricate story of a fictitious murder case in New York City. Series producer Scott Ferguson '82 will present two episodes from the mid-part of the series. More at hbo.com/the-night-of Digital Projection
2 hrs 0 min

All The Way
Friday, February 17	8:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Jay Roach
With Bryan Cranston, Bradley Whitford, Anthony Mackie
"Adapted by [Cornell alum] Robert Schenkkan  from his own play, [the film] follows LBJ for the year after JFK's assassination. It focuses on two events: LBJ's push for the historic Civil Rights Act, which pits him directly against his fellow Dixiecrat politicians, and his re-election, which is almost undermined by those Dixiecrats and the civil rights movement he is trying to support." (Detroit News) Bryan Cranston won a Tony award for his portrayal of LBJ on Broadway, and may very well win an Emmy for this HBO adaptation. More at hbo.com/movies/all-the-way BluRay
2 hrs 12 min

Moana
Saturday, February 18	2:00	
Sunday, February 19	4:30	
2016 > USA > Directed by Ron Clements, John Musker
With Auli'i Cravalho, Dwayne Johnson, Rachel House 
In Ancient Polynesia, when a terrible curse incurred by Maui (Dwayne Johnson) reaches an impetuous Chieftain's daughter's island, she answers the Ocean's call to seek out the demigod to set things right. Featuring music by Hamilton's Lin-Manuel Miranda! Recommended for ages 6+ More at movies.disney.com/moana DCP 'Scope
1 hr 43 min

Ithaca Premiere
Oscar Shorts: Documentary
Tuesday, February 21	7:00	
2016 >  > Directed by various
With 
As we go to press, the Oscar nominations for best documentary short subject have not been decided, but we have no doubt this will be a terrific program. Nominations will be announced on January 24 so we'll get the info up on our website soon after. See all the nominees before the winner is declared at the Academy Awards Ceremony on February 26! Subtitled. More at shortsinternational.com BluRay
 hrs  min

The Great Dictator
Wednesday, February 22	7:00	
1940 > USA > Directed by Charlie Chaplin
With Charlie Chaplin, Paulette Goddard, Jack Oakie
Charlie Chaplin's first talking picture is a farce in which he abandons the Tramp character that made him famous in favor of Hynkel, a caricature of Adolf Hitler. Chaplin uses his natural resemblance to Hitler as an opportunity to deflate the tyranny of Nazi Germany with deft comic absurdism.  Nominated for five Oscars. Cosponsored with the Jewish Studies Program. More at janusfilms.com/chaplin 35mm
2 hrs 3 min

The Godfather
Thursday, February 23	6:45	
Sunday, February 26	1:00	
1972 > USA > Directed by Francis Ford Coppola
With Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan
A landmark in American cinema, Coppola's epic of the Corleone family, released over 40 years ago, remains as powerful as ever. Ranked one of the best American Movies of All Time by the American Film Institute.  DCP
2 hrs 52 min

Evolution
Thursday, February 23	10:00	
Friday, February 24	7:00	
2016 > France > Directed by Lucile Hadzihalilovic
With Max Brebant, Roxane Duran, Julie-Marie Parmentier 
An eerily seductive mind-bender about a remote island community of young boys and adult women whose putty-like skin hints at something not quite human. Awash in the haunting, otherworldly images of a nightmare, the film features "gorgeous widescreen cinematography, including stunning underwater and nighttime footage." (Variety)  Subtitled. More at ifcfilms.com/films/evolution DCP 'Scope
1 hr 21 min

The Godfather II
Friday, February 24	8:45	
Sunday, February 26	4:30	
1975 > USA > Directed by Francis Ford Coppola
With Al Pacino, Robert DeNiro
The second installment of Coppola's legendary Godfather Trilogy   further develops the theme of the corruption of the American Dream and is just as compelling as the first.  DCP
3 hrs 20 min

So This is Paris
Saturday, February 25	7:15	
1926 > USA > Directed by Ernst Lubitsch 
With Lilyan Tashman, Patsy Ruth Miller, Monte Blue
"Ernst Lubitsch's silent comedy from 1926 showed what a German emigre could teach Hollywood about sex! It stars the vivacious actresses Lilyan Tashman and Patsy Ruth Miller as pleasure-seekers whose attentions stray to each other's husband." (Film Forum) The film features a wild party that includes the first ever choreographed dance scene to appear in a film with partygoers doing, what else, the Charleston! 35mm
1 hr 20 min

It
Tuesday, February 28	7:00	
1927 > USA > Directed by Clarence G. Badger
With Clara Bow, Antonio Moreno, Elinor Glyn
This sassy silent comedy about a working class flapper who wins the boss's son established Clara Bow as a sex symbol for the Jazz Age.  She plays an alarmingly vivacious department store salesgirl who falls for her boss and steals him from his society girlfriend with a night of Coney Island fun - a tale of working-class triumph that thrilled the masses.Print has musical soundtrack. More at kinolorber.com/film/it#press Digital Projection
1 hr 12 min

Gold Diggers of 1933
Tuesday, February 28	8:30	
1933 > USA > Directed by Mervyn Le Roy
With Warren William, Joan Blondell, Ginger Rogers, Ruby Keeler
A fantastic Busby Berkeley musical about young women who try to beat the Depression by finding rich husbands. Print preserved by the Library of Congress. 35mm
1 hr 36 min

The Skin I Live In
Wednesday, March 1	7:00	
2011 > Spain > Directed by Pedro Almodovar
With Antonio Banderas, Elena Anaya, Marisa Paredes
Spanish master Pedro Almodovar brings his signature blend of erotic wit, seductive style and perverse cinephilia to yet another classic movie genre: the horror film. In place of the mad scientist and monstrous creature Skin features a cool, dangerous Antonio Banderas developing an experimental synthetic skin with the help of a beautiful, mysterious captive played by Elena Anaya.  Subtitled. More at sonyclassics.com/theskinilivein DCP
1 hr 57 min

Ithaca Premiere
Don't Call Me Son
Thursday, March 2	7:00	
Sunday, March 5	4:30	
2106 > Brazil > Directed by Anna Muylaert
With Dani Nefussi, Naomi Nero, Daniel Botelho
Brazil's Muylaert (The Second Mother) returns with an "endearingly performed story of a cross-dressing teenage boy who finds out he was stolen at birth, and is then forced to move in with his wealthy biological parents." (Hollywood Reporter) "The turmoil of adolescence is plumbed with wit and compassion... newcomer Naomi Nero defies expectations as a broodingly intense, potentially volcanic six-footer in stiletto heels." (Film Forum) Subtitled. More at zeitgeistfilms.com/film/dontcallmeson DCP
1 hr 22 min

Delicatessen
Thursday, March 2	9:00	
Saturday, March 4	7:00	
1991 > France > Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet & Marc Caro
With Dominique Pinon, Marie Dougnac
The setting is France after the final world war and in this time of dire food shortage, mankind's main source of nutrition has become.... well, mankind.  From the folks who gave you the off-kilter world of The City of Lost Children. Subtitled. More at rialtopictures.com DCP
1 hr 35 min

Ithaca Premiere
CatVideoFest
Friday, March 3	7:00	
Saturday, March 4	2:00	
 >  > Directed by various
With 
We had to turn away so many people from last year's Internet Cat Video Festival that we decided to offer two shows this year! Recently renamed simply CatVideoFest and now headed up by longtime festival curator Will Braden, the creator of the Henri Le Chat Noir videos, we can't wait to see the new reel he's assembled that will feature approximately 100 cat videos! This super entertaining interactive event is cosponsored with the Cornell Feline Health Center and Cat's Pajamas, a fun store for kids and kids at heart, located in the DeWitt Mall in downtown Ithaca. Please note: 10% of the proceeds will go to the SPCA of Tompkins County. Recommended for all ages! More at catvidfest.com BluRay
1 hr 30 min

Dr. Strangelove
Friday, March 3	9:00	
Saturday, March 4	9:15	
1963 > USA > Directed by Stanley Kubrick
With Peter Sellers, George C. Scott
A dark parody of the Cold War and the paranoia that came with it, Dr. Strangelove is one of Kubrick's best and most famous films, with outstanding performances by Peter Sellers. Shown in a stunning 4K digital restoration--the best the film has ever looked! DCP
1 hr 33 min

Black Swan
Sunday, March 5	7:00	
2010 > USA > Directed by Darren Aronofsky
With Natalie Portman, Mila Kunis, Vincent Cassel
Featuring a universally acclaimed performance by Natalie Portman as a woman destroyed by her own perfectionism, Black Swan is lurid, breathtaking, visceral and completely enthralling.  "Just like the final performance by its deeply disturbed heroine, Black Swan is perfect." (Premiere)  More at foxsearchlight.com/blackswan/ DCP 'Scope
1 hr 48 min

Tale of Love and Darkness
Tuesday, March 7	7:00	
2015 > Israel, USA > Directed by Natalie Portman
With Natalie Portman, Shira Haas, Mor Cohen
This adaptation of Amos Oz's memoirs, one of Israel's most lauded writers, is set against the backdrop of the end of the British Mandate for Palestine and the early years of the State of Israel. The film details the young man's relationship with his mother (Natalie Portman) and his beginnings as a writer, while looking at what happens when the stories we tell become the stories we live. Subtitled. More at focusfeatures.com/loveanddarkness DCP 'Scope
1 hr 35 min

Gabriel Over the White House
Wednesday, March 8	7:00	
1933 > USA > Directed by Gregory La Cava
With Walter Huston, Karen Morley, Franchot Tone
"Possessed by a heavenly spirit, party hack Walter Huston is suddenly transformed into a 'Super-President,' single-handedly wiping out crime, unemployment  -  and Congress. (Film Forum) "Bizarre, fascinating." (Leonard Maltin)  35mm
1 hr 27 min

The Face of Another
Wednesday, March 8	9:15	
1966 > Japan > Directed by Hiroshi Teshigahara
With Tatsuya Nakadai
After being disfigured in an industrial accident and estranged from his family and friends, Okuyama agrees to his psychiatrist's radical experiment: a face transplant, created from the mold of a stranger. As Okuyama is thus further alienated from the world around him, he finds himself giving in to his darker temptations. With unforgettable imagery, Teshigahara's film explores both the limits and freedom in acquiring a new persona, and questions the notion of individuality itself. Subtitled. More at janusfilms.com/films/1221 35mm
2 hrs 4 min

Being 17
Thursday, March 9	7:00	
Sunday, March 12	7:00	
2016 > France > Directed by Andre Techine
With Sandrine Kiberlain, Kacey Mottet Klein, Corentin Fila
 Director/writer Techine (Wild Reeds) teams up with co-writer Sciamma (Girlhood) to depict "the awakening of gay adolescent desire and self-knowledge in this drama set in the French Pyrenees... an ultra-naturalistic slice of rocky adolescent life that combines violence and sensuality, wrenching loss and tender discovery." (Hollywood Reporter) Subtitled. More at strandreleasing.com/films/being-17 DCP
1 hr 56 min

The City of Lost Children
Thursday, March 9	9:35	
Saturday, March 11	9:20	
1995 > France/Germany/Spain > Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro
With Ron Perlman, Daniel Emilfork, Judith Vittet
This bizarre adult fairy tale by the directors of Delicatessen is set in a grungy future where a whacked-out inventor steals children's dreams. Featuring a cast of freaks - six identical court jester clones, a gang of cyclopses, a talking brain, and a pair of evil Siamese twins, among others - this film is sure to tickle the absurdist in everyone. In French and Cantonese. Subtitled. 35mm
1 hr 51 min

Jackie
Friday, March 10	7:00	
Saturday, March 11	7:00	
2016 > Chile/France/USA > Directed by Pablo Larra’n
With Natalie Portman, John Hurt, Peter Sarsgaard 
"Extraordinary in its piercing intimacy and lacerating in its sorrow..." (Hollywood Reporter) Jackie is a shattering portrayal of Jackie Kennedy in the days just after her husband's assassination.  "Portman flutters like a sail in a brisk wind. She is scattered, tense, wrecked and compellingly defiant in the face of those who would have her act a certain way." (Time Out) More at foxsearchlight.com/jackie DCP
1 hr 40 min

Ithaca Premiere
18th Animation Show of Shows
Friday, March 10	9:15	
Saturday, March 11	2:00	
Sunday, March 12	4:30	
 > various > Directed by various
With 
Twelve family-friendly films from around the world comprise the March 11 matinee. Highlights include About a Mother, a new folktale with echoes of Shel Silverstein's "The Giving Tree," Disney/Pixar's sweet Piper, and the latest in 360¼ storytelling in Google's touching father-and daughter-journey Pearl by Academy Award¨ winner Patrick Osborne. Recommended for age 6+. When the program screens on March 10 & 12, four additional films, for mature audiences (14+), will be shown. Young patrons will be given the opportunity to leave before these films screen. Complete line-up at animationshowofshows.com More at animationshowofshows.com DCP
1 hr 30 min

Ithaca Premiere
About Elly
Tuesday, March 14	7:00	
2009 > Iran > Directed by Asghar Farhadi
With Golshifteh Farahani, Taraneh Alidoosti, Shahab Hosseini
A seaside reunion of old college friends turns into a series of deceptions and revelations when one afternoon Elly (a friend of a friend brought along for a blind date) suddenly vanishes. Seemingly trivial lies, which started accumulating from the moment the group arrived at the seashore, unexpectedly swing round and come back full force. "Outstanding. A subtle psychological thriller." (The Guardian) Subtitled. More at cinemaguild.com/theatrical/aboutelly.html DCP
1 hr 59 min

Chocolat
Wednesday, March 15	7:00	
1988 > France > Directed by Claire Denis
With Isaach de Bankole, Giulia Boschi
Based on her childhood experiences in Cameroon, Denis's acclaimed debut centers on a young French girl; her colonial-official father; her beautiful, restless mother; and their handsome house servant Protee (de Bankole). The film's most remarkable passages deal with the unacknowledged sexual tension between Protee and his mistress, and with the special companionship between Protee and the young girl. "A film of infinite delicacy." (Roger Ebert) Subtitled. More at thefilmdesk.com/ 35mm
1 hr 45 min

Cameraperson
Thursday, March 16	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Kirsten Johnson
With 
"Kirsten Johnson, a prolific and widely traveled cinematographer, makes her living shooting other people's films, many of them dealing with war, injustice and sexual violence. She assembled this memoir from outtakes and home video, and the result is revelatory testimony to the simple, mysterious power of the camera to bridge the chasm between personal experience and public history." (A.O. Scott, NY Times) One of fifteen films shortlisted for Best Documentary Feature Oscar.  Subtitled. More at janusfilms.com/films/1822 DCP
1 hr 42 min

Tampopo
Thursday, March 16	9:15	
Friday, March 17	7:00	
Saturday, March 18	7:00	
1986 > Japan > Directed by Juzo Itami
With Tsutomo Yamazaki, Nobuko Miyamoto, Koji Yakusho
"Jžz™ Itami's Tampopo is a gastro-lucid, pygmalion-esque 'Ramen-Western'--a visual, culinary cornucopia where food, life, death, and sex simmer into one singular broth." (Cinefamily) Shown in a new digital restoration. Subtitled. More at janusfilms.com DCP
1 hr 54 min

A Clockwork Orange
Friday, March 17	9:30	
Saturday, March 18	9:30	
1971 > UK/USA > Directed by Stanley Kubrick
With Malcolm McDowell
Adapted from Anthony Burgess's 1962 novel, Stanley Kubrick's classic is set in a vaguely socialist future and depicts a dreary, Orwellian England overcome by roving gangs of teenage thugs.  Gang-leader Alex, after assorted crimes, is finally apprehended and quite forcibly, most inhumanely, set on the painfully straight and narrow. DCP
2 hrs 17 min

Sing
Saturday, March 18	2:00	
Sunday, March 19	4:30	
2016 > USA > Directed by Garth Jennings, Christophe Lourdelet
With Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Seth MacFarlane
A koala named Buster Moon has one final chance to restore his once-grand theater to its former glory by producing the world's greatest singing competition. Recommended for ages 6+ More at singmovie.com DCP
1 hr 48 min

Bollywood Title - TBA
Sunday, March 19	5:00	
 >  > Directed by 
With 
 More at -8954.5 -80.5
 hrs  min

Ithaca Premiere
The Idol
Tuesday, March 21	7:00	
2016 > Palestine > Directed by Hany Abu-Assad
With Tawfeek Barhom, Kais Attalah, Hiba Attalah
Mohammed Assaf and his sister Nour are aspiring musicians living in Gaza with a dream to compete on the TV show "Arab Idol." Auditions for the most popular show in the Arab world are being held in Cairo, but borders are closed. It might take them a lifetime to get there but, as Mohammed will find out, some dreams are worth living for. Subtitled. More at adoptfilms.com/the-idol/ DCP
1 hr 35 min

Under the Skin
Wednesday, March 22	7:00	
2014 > UK > Directed by Jonathan Glazer
With Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy McWilliams
The film features a strange and captivating performance by Johansson as an alien who uses the guise - and skin - of a beautiful young woman to do her job: seduce lonely men on the streets of Scotland and lead them to their deaths. "The movie's eerie, climactic image challenges our conventional notions of human identity and leaves us reflecting on the possibility that every being in the universe is an alien in disguise." (NY Times) More at undertheskinmovie.com/ DCP
1 hr 48 min

Duck Soup
Thursday, March 23	7:00	
Friday, March 24	7:00	
1933 > USA > Directed by Leo McCarey
With The Marx Brothers, Margaret Dumont
Probably the most successful of all of the Marx Brothers' films in terms of gaggery and timing, Duck Soup features Groucho, Chico, Harpo, and Zeppo in some of their most famous roles, with Groucho playing Rufus T. Firefly, soon-to-be leader of the small country of Freedonia.  DCP
1 hr 10 min

Brazil
Thursday, March 23	8:45	
Saturday, March 25	9:45	
1985 > UK > Directed by Terry Gilliam
With Jonathan Pryce, Michael Palin, Robert De Nire
In this dark cult comedy classic Python alumnus Terry Gilliam looks at middle-class life in the near future, where a near-totalitarian government is breaking down. DCP
2 hrs 22 min

La La Land
Friday, March 24	8:45	
Saturday, March 25	7:00	
Sunday, March 26	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Damien Chazelle
With Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling
A musical set in modern day Los Angeles, La La Land tells the story of Mia, an aspiring actress, and Sebastian, a dedicated jazz musician, who are struggling to make ends meet in a city known for crushing hopes and breaking hearts. "[The film] has its head in the stars, and for a little over two wonderstruck hours, it lifts you up there too." (Telegraph) More at lalaland.movie DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 8 min

As I Open My Eyes
Tuesday, March 28	7:00	
2015 > France/Tunisia > Directed by Leyla Bouzid
With Baya Medhaffer, Ghalia Benali, Montassar Ayari
In Tunis, a few months before the Arab Spring, Farah has just graduated from high school with familial expectations to become a doctor. But she doesn't think the same way. She sings in a political rock band, enjoys getting drunk, and discovering her city by night against the will of her mother Hayet, who knows Tunisia and its dangers too well. Subtitled. More at kinolorber.com/film/asiopenmyeyes DCP
1 hr 42 min

Beau Travail 
Wednesday, March 29	7:00	
Friday, March 31	7:00	
1999 > France > Directed by Claire Denis
With Denis Lavant, Michel Subor, Gregoire Colin
"Herman Melville meets the French Foreign Legion in the middle of the African desert in Beau Travail, a striking retelling of Billy Budd, The Sailor in a minimalist, strongly visual key." (Variety)   Subtitled. 35mm
1 hr 30 min

Art That Nature Makes: The Work of Rosamond Purcell
Thursday, March 30	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Molly Bernstein
With Errol Morris
The film details acclaimed photographer Rosamund Purcell's fascination with the natural world and offers insight into her unique way of recontextualizing objects both ordinary and strange into sometimes disturbing but always breathtaking imagery. More at anartthatnaturemakes.com DCP
1 hr 15 min

Micmacs
Thursday, March 30	9:20	
Friday, March 31	9:00	
2009 > France > Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet
With Dany Boon, Dominique Pinon, Andre Dussollier, Jean-Pierre Marielle
A visually stunning, slapstick tale of revenge from the director of The City of Lost Children and Amelie. "Jeunet maintains a firm control of his dreamscape creation, drawing on influences as varied as Toy Story, Children of Paradise, and TV's Mission: Impossible." (Entertainment Weekly) Subtitled. More at sonyclassics.com/micmacs 35mm 'Scope
1 hr 45 min

Ithaca Premiere
Our Heavenly Bodies
Tuesday, April 11	7:30	SAGE
1925 > Germany > Directed by Hanns Walter Kornblum
With 
In 1925, German director Hanns Walter Kornblum set out to create a film unlike any that had come before. His aim was a film that would serve as both a summation of all the astronomical knowledge available at the time and a dreamy investigation of what wonders might await humanity at the advent of space travel. With the help of 15 special effects technicians and nine cameramen, Kornblum's film is a technical marvel, one that revels in the beauty and mysteries of the universe, reminiscent of Carl Sagan's COSMOS more than 50 years later. Digital restoration by Filmmuseum MŸnchen. Shown with live score performed  by the Nashville-based group, Coupler, founded by Lambchop veteran Ryan Norris. Coupler creates  "...waves of ambient drones that slowly morph into a plundering groove reminiscent of krautrock pioneers Kraftwerk and Cluster...like an electronic flower unfolding..." (The Nashville Scene) Cosponsored with the Cornell Council on the Arts and the Dept of Astronomy. More at couplermusic.com BluRay
1 hr 32 min

The Pillow Book
Wednesday, April 12	7:00	
1997 > UK > Directed by Peter Greenaway
With Vivian Wu, Ewan McGregor
The story of a calligrapher's daughter who nurses a nostalgic obsession for a calligraphic lover. Subtitled. BluRay
2 hrs 6 min

Hidden Figures
Thursday, April 13	7:00	
Friday, April 14	7:00	
Sunday, April 16	4:30	
2016 > USA > Directed by Theodore Melfi
With Taraji P. Henson, Octavia Spencer, Janelle Monae
An inspiring true story about Katherine Johnson (Taraji P. Henson), Dorothy Vaughan (Octavia Spencer) and Mary Jackson (Janelle Monae) - brilliant African-American women working at NASA, who served as the brains behind one of the greatest operations in history: calculating the launch of astronaut John Glenn into orbit, and guaranteeing his safe return. More at foxmovies.com/movies/hidden-figures DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 7 min

Howl's Moving Castle
Thursday, April 13	9:40	
Saturday, April 15	7:00	
2004 > Japan > Directed by Hayao Miyazaki
With Chieko Baiso, Takuya Kimura
Miyazaki's third masterpiece in a row following Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away, is an eye-popping allegory about war and its costs. Subtitled. More at gkids.tv DCP
1 hr 59 min

The Last Waltz
Friday, April 14	9:40	
Sunday, April 16	7:15	
1978 > USA > Directed by Martin Scorsese
With Bob Dylan, Joni Mitchell, Eric Clapton, Emmylou Harris, Neil Young
Martin Scorsese takes his first crack at dealing with Dylan by documenting the final concert of Dylan's former backing group in 1976.  The Band goes out in style with a superstar guest list, and Scorsese's cinematography is a perfect frame for an inspired set of performances.  One of the definitive concert films of all time. Shown in a new digital restoration. More at parkcircus.com DCP
1 hr 57 min

Metropolitan
Saturday, April 15	9:30	
Tuesday, April 18	7:00	
1990 > USA > Directed by Whit Stillman
With Carolyn Farina, Taylor Nichols, Isabel Gillies
Stillman traces the existential and erotic preppy angst of a group of debutantes and their escorts who congregate in after-parties to analyze novels, trash the titled aristocracy, and fret about their impending downward mobility. Shown in a new digital restoration. More at rialtopictures.com/catalogue/metropolitan DCP
1 hr 38 min

Ithaca Premiere
Lampedusa in Winter
Wednesday, April 19	7:00	
2015 > Austria/Italy/Switzerland > Directed by Jakob Brossmann
With 
The Italian "refugee island" of Lampedusa is in the firm grip of winter tristesse. The tourists have left, while the remaining refugees fight to be taken to the mainland. Throughout, this tiny community at the edge of Europe is engaged in a desperate fight for dignity, and for solidarity with those who many consider the cause of the ongoing crisis: the African boat people. More at taskovskifilms.com/?film=lampedusa-in-winter DCP
1 hr 33 min

Daughters of the Dust
Thursday, April 20	7:00	
Saturday, April 22	1:00	
Sunday, April 23	4:30	
1990 > USA > Directed by Julie Dash
With Cora Lee Day, Alva Rodgers
Julie Dash's lyrical portrayal of the Gullah culture on the South Carolina Sea Islands at the turn of the century and the unique dramatization of the sensibilities of African-American women was an inspiration for Beyonce's visual album Lemonade. "A modern classic and one of the greatest American independent films ever made." (Miami Herald) More at cohenmedia.net/ DCP
1 hr 53 min

Neruda
Thursday, April 20	9:30	
Saturday, April 22	7:00	
2016 > Chile > Directed by Pablo Larra’n
With Gael Garc’a Bernal, Luis Gnecco, Alfredo Castro
Beloved poet Pablo Neruda is also the most famous communist in post-WWII Chile. When the political tides shift, he is forced underground, with a perseverant police inspector hot on his trail. In this story of a persecuted poet and his obsessive adversary, Neruda recognizes his own heroic possibilities: a chance to become a symbol for liberty, as well as a literary legend. Subtitled. More at neruda.film DCP 'Scope
1 hr 47 min

Ithaca Premiere
The Glamour & The Squalor
Friday, April 21	7:00	
2016 > USA > Directed by Marq Evans
With Marco Collins, Carrie Brownstein, Kurt Cobain, Mike McCready
107.7 FM The End. Twice an hour in fall '91 Seattle DJ Marco Collins would spin "Smells Like Teen Spirit"; one of the last great rock DJs, he was the first to champion such bands as Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Weezer, Death Cab for Cutie, and Beck. A story of addiction, coming out and rock legends. More at glamoursqualorfilm.com Digital Projection
1 hr 20 min

Pulp Fiction
Friday, April 21	9:25	
Saturday, April 22	9:20	
1994 > USA > Directed by Quentin Tarantino
With John Travolta, Uma Thurman, Samuel Jackson, Bruce Willis
A marvelously fleshed-out action-fiction (mostly) about the trials and tribulations facing three gun-slinging tough guys as they grandly and ineptly muddle their way through a couple of drug and bullet- ridden gangland assignments, not to mention a dance-contest reprise by John Travolta. More at parkcircus.com/films/6179-pulp-fiction DCP 'Scope
2 hrs 33 min

Ithaca Premiere
Nervous Magic Lantern Performance
Tuesday, April 25	7:30	
2017 > USA > Directed by 
With 
"One of the founders of the American avant-garde cinema, Ken Jacobs (b. 1933) has been working ceaselessly and boundlessly in film, video and moving image performance for over fifty years.... Among Jacobs' most important inventions is his Nervous Magic Lantern, a mysterious and mesmerizing performance of light and shadow that returns to cinema's most essential roots, and which he evocatively describes as "cinema without film or electronics." (Harvard Film Archive) Using light, fans, a spinning shutter and his own hands, Mr. Jacobs, along with his collaborative partner and wife, Flo Jacobs, project images that you will swear have been recorded on a strip of film. They have collaborated with many different music groups over the years to present these shows, each one unique. This show will also include several short films by Jacobs. For listing, visit cinema.cornell.edu This program is made possible in part with public funds from NYSCA's Electronic Media & Film Presentation Funds grant program, administered by the ARTS Council of the Southern Finger Lakes. It is additionally cosponsored with the Cornell Council for the Arts and the Departments of Music & Art. More at facebook.com/nervousken 
 hrs  min

The Hunting Ground
Thursday, April 27	7:00	
2015 > USA > Directed by Kirby Dick
With 
A startling and timely film about sexual assault on university campuses. Leah Greenblatt of Entertainment Weekly calls The Hunting Ground "heartbreaking, infuriating, and unmissable," and Leslie Felperin of the Hollywood Reporter says it's "a shocking but ultimately galvanizing work of reportage."  More at huntinggrjoundfilm.com DCP
1 hr 30 min

