18th Animation Show of Shows ()
Mar 10, 11, 12
director: ; cast: 
 
 hrs  min>>0

20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954)
Feb 11
director: Richard Fleischer; cast: Kirk Douglas, James Mason, Peter Lorre
Adapted from Jules Verne's novel, this late Nineteenth Century-set tale is a thrilling journey to the deepest depths of the ocean! Sailors have returned to port with stories of a vicious narwhal which sinks their ships. A naturalist (Paul Lukas), his assistant (Peter Lorre), and a professional whaler (Kirk Douglas), join an US expedition which attempts to unravel the mystery, running into the cantankerous Captain Nemo (James Mason) along the way. Recommended for ages 8+ 
2 hrs 7 min>USA>35mm 'Scope

2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)
Feb 3, 4
director: Stanley Kubrick; cast: Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood
The film that defined science fiction was released over 40 years ago but it still packs a wallop. "With music and mind-blowing visuals, Stanley Kubrick created a wildly popular avant-garde film that asked all of the biggest questions--without venturing any easy answers." (salon.com) If you haven't seen it on the big screen, you haven't seen it.  
2 hrs 19 min>USA>DCP

About Elly (2009)
Mar 14
director: Asghar Farhadi; cast: Golshifteh Farahani, Taraneh Alidoosti, Shahab Hosseini
A seaside reunion of old college friends turns into a series of deceptions and revelations when one afternoon Elly (a friend of a friend brought along for a blind date) suddenly vanishes. Seemingly trivial lies, which started accumulating from the moment the group arrived at the seashore, unexpectedly swing round and come back full force. "Outstanding. A subtle psychological thriller." (The Guardian) 
1 hr 59 min>Iran>35mm

All Governments Lie: Truth, Deception, and the Spirit of I.F. Stone (2016 )
Jan 31
director: Fred Peabody; cast: I.F. Stone, Carl Bernstein, Noam Chomsky
Independent media stars Amy Goodman, Michael Moore, Matt Taibbi, Jeremy Scahill, and Glenn Greenwald make their case against the Mainstream Media with the help of Washington Post's Carl Bernstein, academic Noam Chomsky & Ralph Nader. Doc presents them as heirs to I.F. "Izzy" Stone, whose work is presented in a thumbnail sketch. 
1 hr 31 min>Canada>

All The Way (2016)
Feb 17
director: Jay Roach; cast: Bryan Cranston, Bradley Whitford, Anthony Mackie
"Adapted by [Cornell alum] Robert Schenkkan from his own play, [the film] follows LBJ for the year after JFK's assassination. It focuses on two events: LBJ's push for the historic Civil Rights Act, which pits him directly against his fellow Dixiecrat politicians, and his re-election, which is almost undermined by those Dixiecrats and the civil rights movement he is trying to support." (Detroit News) Bryan Cranston won a Tony award for his portrayal of LBJ on Broadway, and may very well win an Emmy for this HBO adaptation. 
2 hrs 12 min>USA>BluRay

Amelie  (2002)
Feb 14
director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet; cast: Audrey Tautou, Mathieu Kassovitz
Jeunet's talent for whimsy, on display in his earlier work with Marc Caro (The City of Lost Children, Delicatessen), comes into its own in this story of a fetching young lady who changes, in ways small and large, the lives of her Montmartre friends and neighbors. Doors open at 7:15 so patrons can take advantage of a free on-site photo booth, listen to French music, eat French bread & fromage, and frolic! French attire is encouraged! 
2 hrs 1 min>France>BluRay

American Honey (2016)
Jan 28, 29, 30
director: Andrea Arnold; cast: Shia LaBeouf, Riley Keough, Sasha Lane
partying, young loveroad trip across the American Midwest selling magazine subscriptions,  
2 hrs 43 min>UK/USA>DCP

Arrival (2016)
Jan 27, 28
director: Denis Villeneuve; cast: Amy Adams, Jeremy Renner, Forest Whitaker
When mysterious spacecraft touch down across the globe, the American government puts together an elite team to investigate. Mankind teeters on the verge of global war as everyone scrambles for answers Ð who are the visitors, why are they here, and what do they want? To communicate with them, linguistics expert Louise Banks will take a chance that could threaten her life, and quite possibly humanity. 
1 hr 56 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Art That Nature Makes: The Work of Rosamond Purcell (2016)
Mar 30
director: Molly Bernstein; cast: Errol Morris
The film details acclaimed photographer Rosamund Purcell's fascination with the natural world and insight into her unique way of recontextualizing objects both ordinary and strange into sometimes disturbing but always breathtaking imagery. 
1 hr 15 min>USA>DCP

As I Open My Eyes (2015)
Mar 28
director: Leyla Bouzid; cast: Baya Medhaffer, Ghalia Benali, Montassar Ayari
In Tunis, a few months before the Arab Spring, Farah has just graduated from high school with familial expectations to become a doctor. But she doesn't think the same way. She sings in a political rock band, enjoys getting drunk, and discovering her city by night against the will of her mother Hayet, who knows Tunisia and its dangers too well. 
1 hr 42 min>France/Tunisia>DCP

Battle of Algiers (1966)
Feb 9, 12
director: Gillo Pontecorvo; cast: Jean Martin, Yacef Saadi, Brahim Haggiag
A stirring pseudo-documentary about the Algerian revolution against the imperialist French, this showing commemorates the 50th anniversary of Algerian independence. The film treatment was written by an Algerian National Liberation Front (FLN) leader while in a French prison, who upon his release produced the film. With a compelling score by Ennio Morricone and remarkable footage shot in the labyrinthine lanes of the Casbah and on the streets of Algiers, the film was nominated for numerous Academy Awards and won the Grand Prize at the Venice Film Festival.   
2 hrs 3 min>Italy>35mm

Beau Travail (Rights Only) (1999)
Mar 29, 31
director: Claire Denis; cast: Denis Lavant, Michel Subor, Gregoire Colin
"Herman Melville meets the French Foreign Legion in the middle of the African desert in Beau Travail, a striking retelling of Billy Budd, The Sailor in a minimalist, strongly visual key." (Variety)   
1 hr 30 min>France>35mm

Being 17 (2016)
Mar 9, 12
director: Andre Techine; cast: Sandrine Kiberlain, Kacey Mottet Klein, Corentin Fila
Two boys who loathe one another suddenly end up living under one roof. Director/writer Techine (Wild Reeds) teams up with co-writer Sciamma (Girlhood) to depict "the awakening of gay adolescent desire and self-knowledge in this drama set in the French Pyrenees... an ultra-naturalistic slice of rocky adolescent life that combines violence and sensuality, wrenching loss and tender discovery." (Hollywood Reporter) 
1 hr 56 min>France>DCP

Brazil (1985)
Mar 23, 25
director: Terry Gilliam; cast: Jonathan Pryce, Michael Palin, Robert De Nire
In this dark cult comedy classic Python alumnus Terry Gilliam looks at middle-class life in the near future, where a near-totalitarian government is breaking down. 
2 hrs 22 min>UK>DCP

Cameraperson (2016)
Mar 16
director: Kirsten Johnson; cast: 
"These are the images that have marked me and leave me wondering still": cinematographer Kirsten Johnson (Citizenfour, The Invisible War, Darfur Now) dives into a quarter century of footage to construct a memoir of her work. "...a remarkable document about the creative process in the service of a specific goal. It may even tap into a richer vein: what it's like to live on planet Earth." (The Guardian) 
1 hr 42 min>USA>

CatVideoFest ()
Mar 3, 4
director: ; cast: 
 
 hrs  min>>0

Chocolat (1988)
Mar 15
director: Claire Denis; cast: Isaach de Bankole, Giulia Boschi
Based on her childhood experiences in Africa, Denis's acclaimed debut centers on a young French girl; her colonial-official father; her beautiful, restless mother; and their handsome house servant Protee (de Bankole). A grounded airplane brings a group of outsiders who upset the household's precarious equilibrium. "A film of infinite delicacy." (Roger Ebert) 
1 hr 45 min>France>35mm

The City of Lost Children (1995)
Mar 9, 11
director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro; cast: Ron Perlman, Daniel Emilfork, Judith Vittet
This bizarre adult fairy tale by the directors of Delicatessen is set in a grungy future where a whacked-out inventor steals children's dreams. Featuring a cast of freaks - six identical court jester clones, a gang of cyclopses, a talking brain, and a pair of evil Siamese twins, among others - this film is sure to tickle the absurdist in everyone. In French and Cantonese. 
1 hr 51 min>France/Germany/Spain>35mm

A Clockwork Orange (1971)
Mar 17, 18
director: Stanley Kubrick; cast: Malcolm McDowell
Adapted from Anthony Burgess's 1962 novel, Stanley Kubrick's classic is set in a vaguely socialist future and depicts a dreary, Orwellian England overcome by roving gangs of teenage thugs.  Gang-leader Alex, after assorted crimes, is finally apprehended and quite forcibly, most inhumanely set on the painfully straight and narrow. 
2 hrs 17 min>UK/USA>35mm

Collegetown (2015)
Feb 15, 15
director: Hugo Genes; cast: Brian Lederman, M.J. Geier, Hugo Genes
Collegetown illuminates the social and financial situations that determine choices made by debt-ridden U.S. college students.  
1 hr 16 min>USA>

Command and Control (2016)
Feb 7
director: Robert Kenner; cast: 
The documentary reveals the long-hidden story of a deadly accident at a Titan II missile complex in Damascus, Arkansas in 1980. Woven through the Damascus story is a riveting history of America's nuclear weapons program, from World War II through the Cold War, much of it based on recently declassified documents.  
1 hr 32 min>USA>DCP

Daughters of the Dust (1990)
Apr 20, 22, 23
director: Julie Dash; cast: Cora Lee Day, Alva Rodgers
Julie Dash's lyrical portrayal of the Gullah culture and the unique dramatization of the sensibilities of African-American women. 
1 hr 53 min>USA>DCP

Delicatessen (1991)
Mar 2, 4
director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet & Marc Caro; cast: Dominique Pinon, Marie Dougnac
The setting is France after the final world war and in this time of dire food shortage, mankind's main source of nutrition has become.... well, mankind.  From the folks who gave you the off-kilter world of The City of Lost Children. 
1 hr 35 min>France>DCP

Doctor Strange (2016)
Feb 16, 18, 19
director: Scott Derrickson; cast: Benedict Cumberbatch, Tilda Swinton, Chiwetel Eijiofor, Mads Mikkelson
A former neurosurgeon embarks on a journey of healing only to be drawn into the mind-bending world of the mystic arts. The latest crowdpleaser from the Marvel Industrial Complex! 
1 hr 55 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Don't Call Me Son (2106)
Mar 2, 5
director: Anna Muylaert; cast: Dani Nefussi, Naomi Nero, Daniel Botelho
Brazil's Muylaert (The Second Mother) returns with an "endearingly performed story of a cross-dressing teenage boy who finds out he was stolen at birth, and is then forced to move in with his wealthy biological parents." (Hollywood Reporter) "The turmoil of adolescence is plumbed with wit and compassion... newcomer Naomi Nero defies expectations as a broodingly intense, potentially volcanic six-footer in stiletto heels." (Film Forum) 
1 hr 22 min>Brazil>DCP

Dr. Strangelove (1963)
Mar 3, 4
director: Stanley Kubrick; cast: Peter Sellers, George C. Scott
A dark parody of the Cold War and the paranoia that came with it, Dr. Strangelove is one of Kubrick's best and most famous films, with outstanding performances by Peter Sellers. Shown in a stunning 4K Digital restoration--the best the film has ever looked! 
1 hr 33 min>USA>DCP

Duck Soup (1933)
Mar 23, 24
director: Leo McCarey; cast: The Marx Brothers, Margaret Dumont
Probably the most successful of all of the Marx Brothers' films in terms of gaggery and timing, Duck Soup features Groucho, Chico, Harpo, and Zeppo in some of their most famous roles, with Groucho playing Rufus T. Firefly, soon-to-be leader of the small country of Freedonia.  
1 hr 10 min>USA>

The Eagle Huntress (2016)
Feb 4, 5
director: Otto Bell; cast: Aisholpan Nurgaiv
The Eagle Huntress follows Aisholpan, a 13-year-old girl, as she trains to become the first female in twelve generations of her Kazakh family to become an eagle hunter, and rises to the pinnacle of a tradition that has been handed down from father to son for centuries. Recommended for ages 8+ 
1 hr 27 min>UK/Mongolia/USA>DCP

Evolution (2016)
Feb 23, 24
director: Lucile Hadzihalilovic; cast: Max Brebant, Roxane Duran, Julie-Marie Parmentier 
Nicolas lives in a remote seaside village populated only by boys his age and adult women. But when he makes a disturbing discovery beneath the ocean waves - a dead boy with a red starfish on his stomach - Nicolas begins to question everything about his existence. Like what awaits the boys when they are all suddenly confined to a hospital? 
1 hr 21 min>France>DCP 'Scope

The Face of Another (1966)
Mar 8
director: Hiroshi Teshigahara; cast: Tatsuya Nakadai
After being disfigured in an industrial accident and estranged from his family and friends, Okuyama agrees to his psychiatrist's radical experiment: a face transplant, created from the mold of a stranger. As Okuyama is thus further alienated from the world around him, he finds himself giving in to his darker temptations. With unforgettable imagery, Teshigahara's film explores both the limits and freedom in acquiring a new persona, and questions the notion of individuality itself. 
2 hrs 4 min>Japan>35mm

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016)
Feb 9, 11
director: David Yates; cast: Eddie Redmayne, Katherine Waterson, Colin Farrell
The year is 1926 and Newt Scamander has just completed a global excursion to find and document an extraordinary array of magical creatures. Arriving in New York for a brief stopover, he might have come and gone without incident were it not for a No-Maj (American for Muggle) named Jacob, a misplaced magical briefcase, and the escape of some of Newt's fantastic beasts, which could spell trouble for both the wizarding and No-Maj worlds. 
2 hrs 13 min>UK/USA>DCP 'Scope

Gabriel Over the White House (1933)
Mar 8
director: Gregory La Cava; cast: Walter Huston, Karen Morley, Franchot Tone '27
This political satire stars Walter Huston as a newly elected President who shakes off the influence of his party to become a visionary leader. 
1 hr 27 min>USA>35mm

Get Out (2017)
Feb 7
director:  Jordan Peele ; cast:  Allison Williams, Lakeith Stanfield, Catherine Keener 
Now that Chris and his girlfriend Rose have reached the meet-the-parents milestone of dating, she invites him for a weekend getaway upstate with her parents. At first, Chris reads the family's overly accommodating behavior as nervous attempts to deal with their daughter's interracial relationship, but as the weekend progresses, a series of increasingly disturbing discoveries lead him to a truth that he could have never imagined.  
 hrs  min>USA>DCP 'Scope

The Glamour & The Squalor (2016)
Apr 21
director: Marq Evans; cast: Marco Collins, Carrie Brownstein, Kurt Cobain, Mike McCready
107.7 FM The End. Twice an hour in fall '91 Seattle DJ Marco Collins would spin "Smells Like Teen Spirit"; one of the last great rock DJs, he was the first to champion such bands as Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Weezer, Death Cab for Cutie, and Beck. A story of addiction, coming out and rock legends. 
1 hr 20 min>USA>Digital Projection

The Godfather II (1975)
Feb 24, 26
director: Francis Ford Coppola; cast: Al Pacino, Robert DeNiro
The second installment of Coppola's legendary Godfather Trilogy   further develops the theme of the corruption of the American dream and is just as compelling as the first. 35mm 
3 hrs 20 min>USA>

The Godfather (1972)
Feb 23, 26
director: Francis Ford Coppola; cast: Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan
A landmark in American cinema, Coppola's epic of the Corleone family celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2012 and remains as powerful as ever. In part one we learn that Michael Corleone (Al Pacino) is a graduate of Dartmouth College, class of '42, where he met his unsuspecting wife, Kay (Diane Keaton). Ranked one of the best American Movies of All Time by the American Film Institute.  
2 hrs 52 min>USA>Digital Projection

The Great Dictator (1940)
Feb 22
director: Charlie Chaplin; cast: Charlie Chaplin, Paulette Goddard, Jack Oakie
Charlie Chaplin's first talking picture is a farce in which he abandons the Tramp character that made him famous in favor of Hynkel, a caricature of Adolf Hitler. Chaplin uses his natural resemblance to Hitler as an opportunity to deflate the tyranny of Nazi Germany with deft comic absurdism.  Nominated for five Oscars. Cosponsored with the Jewish Studies Program. 
2 hrs 3 min>USA>35mm

The Handmaiden (2016)
Feb 2, 4, 5
director: Chan-wook Park; cast: Min-hee Kim, Jung-woo Ha, Jin-woong Jo
1930s Korea, in the period of Japanese occupation, a new girl is hired as a handmaiden to a Japanese heiress who lives a secluded life on a large countryside estate with her domineering Uncle. But the maid has a secret. She is a pickpocket recruited by a swindler posing as a Japanese Count to help him seduce the Lady to elope with him, rob her of her fortune, and lock her up in a madhouse. The plan seems to proceed accordingly until the two women discover some unexpected emotions. 
2 hrs 24 min>South Korea>DCP 'Scope

Hidden Figures (2016)
Apr 13, 14, 16
director: Theodore Melfi; cast: Taraji P. Henson, Octavia Spencer, Janelle Monae
An inspiring true story about Katherine Johnson (Taraji P. Henson), Dorothy Vaughan (Octavia Spencer) and Mary Jackson (Janelle Monae) - brilliant African-American women working at NASA, who served as the brains behind one of the greatest operations in history: calculating the launch of astronaut John Glenn into orbit, and guaranteeing his safe return. 
2 hrs 7 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Howl's Moving Castle (2004)
Apr 13, 15
director: Hayao Miyazaki; cast: Chieko Baiso, Takuya Kimura
Miyazaki's third masterpiece in a row following Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away, is an eye-popping allegory about war and its costs. 
1 hr 59 min>Japan>DCP

The Hunting Ground (2015)
Apr 27
director: Kirby Dick; cast: 
A startling and timely film about sexual assault on university campuses. Leah Greenblatt of Entertainment Weekly calls The Hunting Ground "heartbreaking, infuriating, and unmissable," and Leslie Felperin of the Hollywood Reporter says it's "a shocking but ultimately galvanizing work of reportage."  
1 hr 30 min>USA>

I Am Not Madame Bovary ()
Feb 16, 18
director: Xiaogang Feng; cast: Bingbing Fan, Wei Fan, Chengpeng Dong
One woman pitches herself against the ranks of Chinese bureaucracy in a ten- year campaign to restore her honor. Feng combines populist humor with a painterly mise-en-scene. "It's like an odd storybook you'd find in the attic and have trouble putting down - the more quixotic Lian's journey becomes, the more you want her to see it through to the bitter end." (Village Voice)  
2 hrs 8 min>China>

I Am Not Your Negro (2017)
Feb 8
director: Raoul Peck; cast: Samuel L. Jackson (narrator)
Focusing on a never-finished testimony by James Baldwin centered on the assassinations of Medgar Evers, Malcolm X, and Martin Luther King, Jr., Raoul Peck's "spiritual documentary...[is] a kaleidoscopic and transporting 90 minutes living inside James Baldwin's mind." (Variety) "...a cinematic seance, and one of the best movies about the civil rights era ever made." (The Guardian) 
1 hr 35 min>USA/France/Belgium>DCP

The Idol (2016)
Mar 21
director: Hany Abu-Assad; cast: Tawfeek Barhom, Kais Attalah, Hiba Attalah
Mohammed Assaf and his sister Nour, are aspiring musicians living in Gaza with a dream to compete on the TV show "Arab Idol." Auditions for the most popular show in the Arab world are being held in Cairo, but borders are closed. It might take them a lifetime to get there but, as Mohammed will find out, some dreams are worth living for. 
1 hr 35 min>Palestine>DCP

Imitation of Life (1959)
Feb 1
director: Douglas Sirk; cast: Juanita Moore, Lana Turner, Sandra Dee, Susan Kohner
In his final film, Sirk remakes Imitation of Life, a popular melodrama that explores mother-child relations, passing, and class conflict.  "Nothing is natural.  Ever.  Not in the whole film."  (Rainer Werner Fassbinder)  
2 hrs 5 min>USA>DCP

It (1927)
Feb 28
director: Clarence G. Badger; cast: Clara Bow, Antonio Moreno, Elinor Glyn
This sassy silent comedy about a working class flapper who wins the boss's son established Clara Bow as a sex symbol for the Jazz Age.  She plays an alarmingly vivacious department store salesgirl who falls for her boss and steals him from his society girlfriend with a night of Coney Island fun - a tale of working-class triumph that thrilled the masses.Print has musical soundtrack. 
1 hr 12 min>USA>35mm

Jackie (2016)
Mar 10, 11
director: Pablo Larra’n; cast: Natalie Portman, John Hurt, Peter Sarsgaard 
"Extraordinary in its piercing intimacy and lacerating in its sorrow..." (Hollywood Reporter) Jackie is a shattering portrayal of Jackie Kennedy in the days just after her husband's assassination.  "Portman flutters like a sail in a brisk wind. She is scattered, tense, wrecked and compellingly defiant in the face of those who would have her act a certain way." (Time Out) 
1 hr 40 min>Chile/France/USA>DCP

Kubo and the Two Strings (2016)
Jan 27, 28, 29
director: Travis Knight; cast: Charlize Theron, Art Parkinson, Ralph Fiennes, George Takei
In the latest movie from stop-motion animation studio Laika, a young boy named Kubo must locate a magical suit of armor worn by his late father in order to defeat a vengeful spirit from the past. Recommended for ages 8+ 
1 hr 41 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

La La Land (2016)
Mar 24, 25, 26
director: Damien Chazelle; cast: Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling
Written and directed by Academy Award nominee Damien Chazelle (Whiplash), La La Land tells the story of Mia, an aspiring actress, and Sebastian, a dedicated jazz musician, who are struggling to make ends meet in a city known for crushing hopes and breaking hearts. Set in modern day Los Angeles, this original musical about everyday life explores the joy and pain of pursuing your dreams.   
2 hrs 8 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Lampedusa in Winter (2015)
Apr 19
director: Jakob Brossmann; cast: 
The Italian "refugee island" of Lampedusa is in the firm grip of winter tristesse. The tourists have left, while the remaining refugees fight to be taken to the mainland. Throughout, this tiny community at the edge of Europe is engaged in a desperate fight for dignity, and for solidarity with those who many consider the cause of the ongoing crisis: the African boat people. 
1 hr 33 min>Austria/Italy/Switzerland>DCP

The Last Waltz (1978)
Apr 14, 16
director: Martin Scorsese; cast: Bob Dylan, Joni Mitchell, Eric Clapton, Emmylou Harris, Neil Young
Martin Scorsese takes his first crack at dealing with Dylan by documenting the final concert of Dylan's former backing group in 1976.  The Band goes out in style with a superstar guest list, and Scorsese's cinematography is a perfect frame for an inspired set of performances.  One of the definitive concert films of all time.  
1 hr 57 min>USA>DCP

Metropolitan (1990)
Apr 15, 18
director: Whit Stillman; cast: Carolyn Farina, Taylor Nichols, Isabel Gillies
Stillman traces the existential and erotic preppy angst of a group of debutantes and their escorts who congregate in after-parties to analyze novels, trash the titled aristocracy, and fret about their impending downward mobility. 
1 hr 38 min>USA>DCP

Micmacs (2009)
Mar 30, 31
director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet; cast: Dany Boon, Dominique Pinon, Andre Dussollier, Jean-Pierre Marielle
A visually stunning, slapstick tale of revenge from the director of The City of Lost Children and Amelie. "Jeunet maintains a firm control of his dreamscape creation, drawing on influences as varied as Toy Story, Children of Paradise, and TV's Mission: Impossible." (Entertainment Weekly) 
1 hr 45 min>France>35mm 'Scope

Moana (2016)
Feb 18, 19
director: Ron Clements, John Musker; cast: Auli'i Cravalho, Dwayne Johnson, Rachel House 
In Ancient Polynesia, when a terrible curse incurred by Maui (Dwayne Johnson) reaches an impetuous Chieftain's daughter's island, she answers the Ocean's call to seek out the demigod to set things right. Featuring music by Hamilton's Lin-Manuel Miranda! Recommended for ages 6+ 
1 hr 43 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Moonlight (2016)
Feb 1, 2, 3
director: Barry Jenkins ; cast: Mahershala Ali, Janelle Monae, Kevin Sanderson, Jharrell Jerome, Trevante Rhodes, Andre Holland
Tough yet tender, gritty yet sensual, heart-rending and joyful, this remarkable film in which a gentle Black boy bullied as a "faggot" grows to manhood in Liberty City, Miami is "a cultural watershed - a work that dismantles all the ways our media view young black men and puts in their place a series of intimate truths. You walk out feeling dazed, more whole, a little cleaner." (Boston Globe) 
1 hr 51 min>USA >DCP 'Scope

Neruda (2016)
Apr 20, 22
director: Pablo Larra’n; cast: Gael Garc’a Bernal, Luis Gnecco, Alfredo Castro
Beloved poet Pablo Neruda is also the most famous communist in post-WWII Chile. When the political tides shift, he is forced underground, with a perseverant police inspector hot on his trail. In this story of a persecuted poet and his obsessive adversary, Neruda recognizes his own heroic possibilities: a chance to become a symbol for liberty, as well as a literary legend. 
1 hr 47 min>Chile>DCP 'Scope

Nervous Magic Lantern Performance (2017)
Apr 25
director: ; cast: 
"One of the founders of the American avant-garde cinema, Ken Jacobs (b. 1933) has been working ceaselessly and boundlessly in film, video and moving image performance for over fifty years.... Among Jacobs' most important inventions is his Nervous Magic Lantern, a mysterious and mesmerizing performance of light and shadow that returns to cinema's most essential roots, and which he evocatively describes as "cinema without film or electronics." (Harvard Film Archive) Using light, fans, a spinning shutter and his own hands, Mr. Jacobs, along with his collaborative partner and wife, Flo Jacobs, project images that you will swear have been recorded on a strip of film. They have collaborated with many different music groups over the years to present these shows, each one unique. This show will also include several short films by Jacobs. For listing, visit cinema.cornell.edu This program is made possible in part with public funds from NYSCA's Electronic Media & Film Presentation Funds grant program, administered by the ARTS Council of the Southern Finger Lakes. It is additionally cosponsored with the Cornell Council for the Arts and the Departments of Music & Art. 
 hrs  min>USA>

Oscar Shorts: Animation ()
Feb 10, 11, 12
director: ; cast: 
 
 hrs  min>>0

Oscar Shorts: Documentary ()
Feb 21
director: ; cast: 
 
 hrs  min>>0

Oscar Shorts: Live Action ()
Feb 10, 12
director: ; cast: 
 
 hrs  min>>0

Our Heavenly Bodies (1925)
Apr 11
director: Hanns Walter Kornblum; cast: 
 
1 hr 32 min>Germany>BluRay

The Pillow Book (1997)
Apr 12
director: Peter Greenaway; cast: Vivian Wu, Ewan McGregor
The story of a calligrapher's daughter who nurses a nostalgic obsession for a calligraphic lover. 
2 hrs 6 min>UK>BluRay

Pulp Fiction (1994)
Apr 21, 22
director: Quentin Tarantino; cast: John Travolta, Uma Thurman, Samuel Jackson, Bruce Willis
A marvelously fleshed-out action-fiction (mostly) about the trials and tribulations facing three gun-slinging tough guys as they grandly and ineptly muddle their way through a couple of drug and bullet- ridden gangland assignments, not to mention a dance-contest reprise by John Travolta. 
2 hrs 33 min>USA>DCP 'Scope

Sing (2016)
Mar 18, 19
director: Garth Jennings, Christophe Lourdelet; cast: Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Seth MacFarlane
A koala named Buster Moon has one final chance to restore his once-grand theater to its former glory by producing the world's greatest singing competition. Recommended for ages 6+ 
1 hr 48 min>USA>DCP

The Skin I Live In (2011)
Mar 1
director: Pedro Almodovar; cast: Antonio Banderas, Elena Anaya, Marisa Paredes
Spanish master Pedro Almodovar brings his signature blend of erotic wit, seductive style and perverse cinephilia to yet another classic movie genre: the horror film. In place of the mad scientist and monstrous creature Skin features a cool, dangerous Antonio Banderas developing an experimental synthetic skin with the help of a beautiful, mysterious captive played by Elena Anaya.  
1 hr 57 min>Spain>35mm

So This is Paris (1926)
Feb 25
director: Ernst Lubitsch ; cast: Lilyan Tashman, Patsy Ruth Miller, Monte Blue
"Ernst Lubitsch's silent comedy from 1926 showed what a German emigre could teach Hollywood about sex! It stars the vivacious actresses Lilyan Tashman and Patsy Ruth Miller as pleasure-seekers whose attentions stray to each other's husband." (Film Forum) The film features a wild party that includes the first ever choreographed dance scene to appear in a film with partygoers doing, what else, the Charleston! 
1 hr 20 min>USA>35mm

Streit's Matzo and the American Dream (2016)
Feb 13
director: Michael Levine; cast: Elissa Sampson
Since 1925 the Streit's matzo factory has sat in a low-slung tenement building on Manhattan's Lower East Side. While other matzo companies have modernized, Streit's remained a piece of living history, churning out 40 percent of the nation's unleavened bread on pre-War machinery as old as the factory itself. Sponsored by the Jewish Studies Program. 
1 hr 23 min>USA>DCP

Tale of Love and Darkness (2015)
Mar 7
director: Natalie Portman; cast: Natalie Portman, Shira Haas, Mor Cohen
This adaptation of Amos Oz's memoirs, one of Israel's most lauded writers, is set against the backdrop of the end of the British Mandate for Palestine and the early years of the State of Israel. The film details the young man's relationship with his mother (Natalie Portman) and his beginnings as a writer, while looking at what happens when the stories we tell become the stories we live. 
1 hr 35 min>Israel, USA>DCP 'Scope

Tampopo (1986)
Mar 16, 17, 18
director: Juzo Itami; cast: Tsutomo Yamazaki, Nobuko Miyamoto, Koji Yakusho
"Jžz™ Itami's Tampopo is a gastro-lucid, pygmalion-esque "Ramen-Western"--a visual, culinary cornucopia where food, life, death, and sex simmer into one singular broth." (Cinefamily) 
1 hr 54 min>Japan>DCP

The Gold Digger of 1933 (1933)
Feb 28
director: Mervyn Le Roy; cast: Warren William, Joan Blondell, Ginger Rogers, Ruby Keeler
A fantastic Busby Berkeley musical about young women who try to beat the Depression by finding rich husbands. 
1 hr 36 min>USA>35mm

The Night Of (2016)
Feb 17
director: Steven Zaillian; cast: John Turturro, Riz Ahmed
From creators Steven Zaillian and Cornell Alum and writer Richard Price '71, The Night Of is a Golden Globe nominated limited HBO TV series that delves into the intricate story of a fictitious murder case in New York City. Series producer Scott Ferguson '82 will present two episodes from the mid-part of the series. 
2 hrs 0 min>USA>Digital Projection

Tower (2016)
Feb 6
director: Keith Maitland; cast: Violett Beane, Louie Arnette, Blair Jackson
In 1966 a sniper climbed into the University of Texas Tower and shot 49 people, killing 16 in America's first school mass-shooting. The day is recreated through rotoscoped animation as in Richard Linklater's Waking Life.  "Through the recollections of witnesses and victims, [Tower] simultaneously builds a present-tense narrative while portraying the terrifying resilience of memory and trauma." (Village Voice) 
1 hr 36 min>USA>DCP

Under the Skin (2014)
Mar 5
director: Jonathan Glazer; cast: Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy McWilliams
A mysterious woman (Scarlett Johansson) seduces lonely men in the evening hours in Scotland. Events lead her to begin a process of self-discovery. 
1 hr 48 min>UK>DCP

The Wanderers (1979)
Feb 15
director: Philip Kaufman; cast: Ken Wahl, Karen Allen, John Friedrich
Based on the acclaimed first novel by Richard Price '71, The Wanderers follows the exploits of the titular Italian-American gang in the Bronx at the end of the Kennedy administration, just before the country underwent profound change. Featuring a jukebox full of golden oldies and a young cast of up and comers! 
1 hr 57 min>USA>DCP

White Material (2009)
Mar 22
director: Claire Denis; cast: Isabelle Huppert, Christopher Lambert, Isaach De Bankole
The ever-provocative Claire Denis returns with a harrowing tale of French colonial Africa. The personal and the political collide as coffee plantation owner Maria (Isabelle Huppert) struggles to maintain her pride amid a civil war closing in at all sides. Christopher Lambert (the Highlander himself!) also delivers a peak performance. The film's jagged narrative reflects its setting and leaves us with a violent tale of psychological upheaval. If you see only one French film this year, make it this. 
1 hr 46 min>France>35mm 'Scope

